I am Kyarra Bagalay Cinconiegue studying at Bohol Island State University, taking up Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering. As a Computer Engineering student, it is a necessity for us to take the Troubleshooting subject. Troubleshooting is a form of problem solving, often applied to repair failed products or processes on a machine or a system. It is a logical, systematic search for the source of a problem in order to solve it, and make the product or process operational again. Troubleshooting is needed to identify the symptoms. Determining the most likely cause is a process of elimination—eliminating potential causes of a problem. Finally, troubleshooting requires confirmation that the solution restores the product or process to its working state. In computer world, Troubleshooting is the process or identifying and fixing problems. Computer troubleshooting may involve hardware or software and can sometimes involve both at the same time. The basic process of troubleshooting is to check the most general possible problems first, and then gradually check for more specific problems. This provides a logical approach to problem solving and can apply to multiple types of products. Computer hardware includes the physical, tangible parts or components of a computer, such as the cabinet, central processing unit, monitor, keyboard, computer data storage, graphics card, sound card, speakers and motherboard.[1] By contrast, software is instructions that can be stored and run by hardware. Hardware is so-termed because it is "hard" or rigid with respect to changes or modifications; whereas software is "soft" because it is easy to update or change. Intermediate between software and hardware is "firmware", which is software that is strongly coupled to the particular hardware of a computer system and thus the most difficult to change but also among the most stable with respect to consistency of interface. The progression from levels of "hardness" to "softness" in computer systems parallels a progression of layers of abstraction in computing. Hardware is typically directed by the software to execute any command or instruction. A combination of hardware and software forms a usable computing system, although other systems exist with only hardware components. In our subject, we need to troubleshoot the different hardware parts of computer. The template for all modern computers is the Von Neumann architecture, detailed in a 1945 paper by Hungarian mathematician John von Neumann. This describes a design architecture for an electronic digital computer with subdivisions of a processing unit consisting of an arithmetic logic unit and processor registers, a control unit containing an instruction register and program counter, a memory to store both data and instructions, external mass storage, and input and output mechanisms. The meaning of the term has evolved to mean a stored-program computer in which an instruction fetch and a data operation cannot occur at the same time because they share a common bus. This is referred to as the Von Neumann bottleneck and often limits the performance of the system. We need to know their exact functions and the proper way of troubleshooting it. My experiences throughout my Troubleshooting class were: I was able to make a report using a non-familiar presentation maker called Prezi. I was able to report in class. I was able to sign in an account in github. I was able to make a repository which is very new to me. It was an embarrassing moment for me when making a repository in github, I was ranting because I thought I was not yet still added in the group only to find out that I should accept the invitation first and also thought that I was not invited yet. My classmates, private messaged me, giving me information that I should accept first the invitation on my email. I was actually embarrassed that time because I did not realize those. Another embarrassing moment was when I already made the repository, I immediately private messaged one of my classmates asking why can’t I attach my files and he replying to me saying 'pangitaa diha kyang kay naa na diha peru gamay lang' and I replied 'wala oy!', he said 'sendi ra gd kog screen captured' and me, "HANGAHAG" immediately send the screen captured, he replies with the image (the one I sent him) encircling the word 'upload file' only to see that I was actually staring at it but without realizing that it is actually what he is talking about. I was not able to pass the soft copy of our report sir because my file was deleted and I tried to ask my classmates if they still have their copy because as we report, we are oblige to give our classmates the soft copy of our report. Another thing is I was able to experience sitting arrangement again.  I was expecting that there will be an exam for National Certificate about Hardware Servicing, I was able to take the exam when I was on my last year on high school but it says in the certificate that it will expire on august this year that’s why I was looking forward to re-exam but maybe the time allocated for our class is not enough to mandate an actual practicum. 
My experience to your teaching skills sir is ‘honestly speaking’ I cannot  really evaluate your teaching experience sir since I am always absent  in the class but as I observed, you are an effective instructor since you only teach us the essential topics we need to learn, no more extra char char. You are an effective instructor in a way that you consider the busyness and the stress that your students encounter especially now because you didn’t gave us time-consuming activities, costly projects and mind-blowing exams.  You are an approachable instructor no wonder, because as I can see that every time my classmates asks you regarding with their projects but are not related to our subject, you will answer them in a good way where they can understand it well. I Hope you influence the other instructor sir.  Or don’t let yourself influenced by those instructors; I know you know whose I am referring to.  But I hope you will be strict to the next batches you will handle, because vengeance is sweet for us. 
